---
title: 'Gaurav Thakur: How it all started?'
publishedDate: 05/12/2021
author: Gaurav Thakur
description:
  Hi, my name is Gaurav Thakur. Currently, I'm doing my BTech in Computer
  Science from Lovely Professional University. I'll be graduating in the year
  2022. In this article, I will share my wonderful journey in the field of
  programming.
---

![Who is Gaurav Thakur](/images/who-is-gaurav-thakur.png)

## Introduction
Hi, my name is Gaurav Thakur. I live in a very beautiful valley of Kullu,
Himachal Pradesh. Currently, I'm doing my BTech in Computer Science from Lovely
Professional University. I'll be graduating in the year 2022. Along with that
I'm working as Associate Software Engineer at MAQ Software

## Early Childhood
From the starting of my childhood, I had a profound interest in technology. I
still remember it all started when I got my very first Android smartphone. At
that time I was in 9th grade. I wanted to create my own website on the internet.
Long story short, I created a blog on Blogger and named it Tricky-Tricks. I also
purchased a ([dot] in) domain for it. I was very much inspired by Harsh Agarwal,
Founder of ShoutMeLoud.

## School Life
From the starting of my childhood, I had a profound interest in technology. I
When I reached 10th grade, I got very fascinated by the hacking. At that time I
didn't know the real meaning of hacking. I just thought that hacking means
gaining access to someone's Facebook account or a website. I learned how to
create a phishing page on [Wapka](https://www.wapka.site/). I also tried to gain
root access on my android device. But during that time, it was not easy to root
your device. There were no Magisk at that time. Due to lack of resources, I was
unable to root it.

Things got changed when I got into 11th standard, I received a brand-new laptop
as a scholarship from the school. It was an Acer machine with quite low
specifications. I wanted to learn about android development. I came to know that
android applications are developed in a special application known as Android
Studio. I downloaded and installed it. As soon as I opened the application, my
laptop got stuck. Also, I didn't have any idea of Java back then.

However, I started learning Python from a great Udemy course which is still a
bestseller. The course was going very smooth, and I was enjoying the whole
journey until the OOP section jumped in. I watched the video many times but was
unable to understand / relate the meaning of the Classes.

I was very clear about what stream to choose after completing 12th standard.
Without any second thought, I got myself enrolled in the BTech program in
Computer Science from Lovely Professional University. I scored very fewer marks
in JEE exam. So I didn't have many good options when it comes to universities.

## College Life
I enrolled myself in the BTech (CSE) program at [LPU](https://lpu.in) after
12th. During my life in college, I worked the hardest. I don't remember a single
day that I haven't coded anything. I started competitive programming at the end
of the first semester. Became a 3-star coder on the CodeChef. At the end of the
fourth semester, I started doing development also. I explored many frameworks
like Flutter and React Native. Now, I've finally settled for web development,
and I'm loving it. Most of the time, you can see me either building something or
solving some algorithmic problem.
